Executive Mansion, Washington

I leave home in Washington this morning, and as I reflect upon your ascension to this position of stature, my mind turns to the duties you must now bear. I congratulate you, the party, and the Country upon this victory. I know you have no time to reply. Do not. Yet I feel compelled to provide you with a few reflections from my own tenure, in the hope that my victories and my failures might light your path to bringing this nation to greatness. When I took the oath of office in '77, I laid eyes upon the encroachments upon executive power, weak and pitiful in the face of congressional oversight during the Reconstruction Era, amidst the scandals of Grant's administration. I found the presidency reduced to political patronage, its constitutional power of spoils stolen by the dictates of senatorial courtesy, a system of political trading that led to disgraces such as that of the Whiskey Ring. We must never allow our most hallowed office in the republic to be degraded in such a fashion again.
Not long after I put a stop to the disgraces of the Whiskey Ring, I found myself in the midst of yet another conflict. You may recall my appropriations bill of '79, when the Democratic party, the majority, in the 46th congress, attempted to starve our government of funds by adding "odious" riders meant only to strip away federal election laws protecting our fellow citizens. They sought to repeal the enforcement acts, forbidding federal marshals and troops from keeping the peace at the polls, which would have abandoned black voters. I stood my ground. I vetoed such bills seven times that spring and summer. In the end, I forced Congress to retreat. I achieved this not merely by way of the veto, but by appealing to the American public. I used my veto to expose the legislative corruption and coercion for what they were: falsehoods. Once I awakened the public to Congress's usurpation of power and rallied to the defense of the executive branch, the partisan majority found it had been broken and, as such, yielded. I charge you, sir, to defend the Constitution and the independence of the executive branch with the same resolve I was forced to apply.
My defense of the office is not just directed at the democratic opposition party, but the threat within our own. Consider my struggle with Republican Senator Rosco Conkling over the New York Custom House. For years, this institution, which had amassed a vast swathe of this nation's revenue, had been transformed into a partisan machine. Senator Conkling used his large payroll to give gifts to his loyalist supporters and secure political kickbacks. He forced custom clerks to pay a percentage of their salaries to his political campaign. He effectively removed the executive's constitutional right to appoint federal officials through this practice of "senatorial courtesy." Under this, the Senate rejected any nominee opposed by their home senator. Conkling wielded this as his own veto, and I had to destroy it to restore executive order. When I ordered the removal of Collector Chester Arthur from the New York custom house to clean up this mess, Cronkling then held the Senate hostage, refusing to sign the replacements. I did not yield. I waited for the congressional recess, suspended Arthur, and installed a man of my choosing, eventually ordering the Senate to respect my constitutional decisions. BUT WHY DID THE ORDER HOLD…EXPLAIN HOW THIS IS EXECUTIVE POWER _ DRIVE IT HOME.
Though my war against Senator Cronkling was over, the broader war against patronage continued. And yet I must confess my mistakes. I regret making the compromises amongst my cabinet to appease the various political factions of our party. In trying to unite the various factions of our party, I yielded to the spoil system which I sought to destroy. I only wish, with the benefit of hindsight, that I had issued a mandate for civil service exams on my very first day in office. Such a stroke of genius would have solved the crisis at hand. By making the merit the measure of employment, I would have starved the political machine of its lifeblood and cut Congress's access to patronage jobs from the beginning.
Let the mistakes of my tenure be lessons for you. As you find yourself facing challenges as president, I find it prudent to note that, in navigating the crises of state, I have always favored deliberate, moderate, and constitutional choices, choosing conciliation over confrontation. I largely advise you to follow this same course of action, save for this exception. When I presided over the nation after the disputed 1876 election, the nation was not torn asunder once more. In my desire to placate complaints of federal overreach from white southern leaders, I made a grave error: I lessened executive power. My southern policy achieved "permanent pacification" by removing the last federal troops from statehouses in Columbia and New Orleans, thereby restoring them to local government. I laboured under the hope that I could accomplish restoring state sovereignty while protecting the civil freedoms of black Americans. I restored local government rule on the word of the "trustworthy" Southern conservative officials who promised the protection of the civil and voting rights of black people and white people alike. Let my gravest error of them be your greatest advice: never make the mistake of thinking the non-existence of conflict is the existence of justice. Do not trust bad-faith politicians who offer peace at the expense of citizens' rights. I bitterly regret trusting the promises of those southern officials. I ought never to have removed those troops without a true guarantee of their word. I should have enforced the Fourteenth and Fifteenth Amendments unequivocally, maintaining a federal presence until equal rights for all men could be guaranteed, rather than leaving it to empty promises.
Finally, Mr. President, I submit to you that a true democracy requires more than just mere political maneuvering: it necessitates an educated public and economic stability. Our economic stability was threatened by the specter of the '73 panic, speculation, and public clamor for monetary gains. I am proud to have returned the United States to the gold standard through the resumption of specie payments in '79, following the panic of '73. My actions restored the value of the greenback on par with gold, and I revived confidence in our nation and its market. Additionally, I set forth a new era of commercial prosperity.  During this time, I even defied my own party by vetoing the Bland-Allison Act, which would have introduced depreciated silver coins into our economy, thereby driving gold from circulation, eventually devaluing this nation's currency and destroying its citizens' livelihoods. I advise you, sir, to stand strong as an unbought and unbossed, against these populist opinions when the credit and economic integrity of this republic are at stake.
A strong currency is only the foundation for a long-lasting republic; a democracy resting equally upon this nation's educated citizenry is also imperative. I urge you, dear president, to look beyond the overly partisan politics and invest your time in the foundations of this nation. A divided nation can only heal itself and its people if it ensures its people have their livelihoods, and that depends upon equal access to knowledge. In my state of the Union, I pleaded for both the illiterate black and white people in the south for federal aid to educate them. I failed in my noble essay due to the fiercely partisan Congress, too frivolous with petty squabbles and resistant to federal intervention in local schooling. My regret is that I did not fight for the minds of this nation's youth with the same force with which I defended the executive branch against those partisan riders. I wish I had used the weight of my office and the leverage of my veto pen to force Congress to pass federal funding for southern schools.
The burden of this office is immense, the critics are relentless, but now you are the guiding spirit of this nation. Rely on your conscience, defend the independence of this office, and never compromise the rights of the vulnerable for the convenience and sake of political harmony.
