I was gonna go geocaching after school but then I didn't really feel like it but then my cousin text me saying there was a "new" cache by the creek behind the school so I just went. I didnt have my GPS app updated right so it kept freezing every time I tried to load the map. The arrow thing kept spinning around and I couldn't tell which way I was supposed to walk but I just kept going straight even though it didn't feel right.

The path was muddy and there was trash bags all over because people dump stuff there sometimes. I wasnt really sure where the creek even started because its kind of dry except when it rains. The coordinates said 15 meters then 70 meters then it said "signal lost" which was annoying. I seen a log with a big crack in it so I thought maybe it was there but it wasn't. Just bugs.

I walked more but I wasn't sure why because it didn't look like any place someone would hide something. There was a broken shopping cart and a bunch of sticks. Then I thought I seen a plastic box under some leaves but it was just a takeout container with old noodles in it that smelled bad. After that I kinda wanted to go home but I already walked too far so I figured I should at least try.

Then I saw this metal pipe sticking up and I thought maybe that was part of the clue like the "pipe guardian" cache I heard of but it was just a pipe. I kicked it and it made a loud noise and scared a bird. After that my cousin texted me "did you find it lol" which made me mad because he probly never even looked for it.

I finally found a small tin near a rock. It wasnt hidden very good. I opened it and there was only a ripped paper that said "cache moved try agen later." I didnt know what that means. Nobody signed it or anything. It didn't even look like a real cache just trash again.

Walking back I kept getting lost because the trees kind of all looked the same. I slipped once and got mud on my pants. By the time I got home I didn't even care about the cache anymore. I dont think I'm gonna go there again because it didn't feel like a real hunt and probly was all messed up.
